In peripheral artery disease, or PAD,
fatty material called plaque
builds up inside the peripheral arteries,
which supply blood and oxygen to your limbs.
Most commonly PAD affects the pelvis and legs.
Plaque can reduce the blood flow,
so the cells in your legs
don’t get the oxygen they need.
This can cause symptoms such as pain and cramping
during times when your cells need more oxygen,
such as when you walk or exercise.
The calf muscles are most often affected.
However, PAD is often undiagnosed
or does not cause symptoms.
Scientists are now finding
that erectile dysfunction, or ED,
can be a marker for undiagnosed PAD.
Erection occurs when blood flows into
chambers that run the length of the penis
and is trapped there.
In ED, an erection is hard to produce.
ED has been linked to build up of
plaque in blood vessels
that is not yet causing signs and symptoms.
Men with ED are more likely to have PAD.
The likelihood increases
as ED becomes more frequent.
If you have ED,
ask your doctor whether you would benefit
from testing for PAD.
Severe PAD can cause permanent damage
to tissue in the lower legs and feet
due to lack of blood and oxygen.
Early detection and treatment
can help prevent damage from occurring.